Course 01 - Blockchain Basic
This first course of the Blockchain specialization provides a broad overview of the essential concepts of blockchain technology – by initially exploring the Bitcoin protocol followed by the Ethereum protocol – to lay the foundation necessary for developing applications and programming. You will be equipped with the knowledge needed to create nodes on your personal Ethereum blockchain, create accounts, unlock accounts, mine, transact, transfer Ethers, and check balances.

Table of contents
Certificate
Week 01 Blockchain Defined
Week 02 Ethereum Blockchain
Week 03 Algorithms & Techniques
Week 04 Trust Essentials
Certificate
Certificate

Week 01 Blockchain Defined
Learning Objectives:

Explain the three fundamental characteristics that define a Blockchain using Bitcoin Blockchain.
Discuss the important features of Ethereum Blockchain that is used as reference implementation in many newer Blockchains.
Outline methods for realizing trust in the Blockchain.
Resources
Title of resource	Resource type	Description
Bitcoin Whitepaper	Website	This is paper released by Satoshi Nakamoto prior to release of the now famous cryptocurrency Bitcoin.
Bitcoin's Academic Pedigree	Paper	How Bitcoin, a radically different proposal for a decentralized cryptocurrency showed that digital cash could be viable.
What is Blockchain Technology? A Step-by-Step Guide For Beginners	Website	A step by step guide that goes into the details of what Blockchain technology is.
Blockchain: The Invisible Technology That's Changing the World	Website	Article that expands on a new immutable digital fabric remaking the internet without people even realizing it. It also shows how Blockchain-based networks, decentralized apps (DApps), and distributed ledgers are becoming the foundation of digital life.
Unspent Transaction Output, UTXO	Website	An online glossary for technical terms regarding Bitcoins. This link Provides the definition and synonyms for an “Unspent Transaction Output”.
Unspent Transaction Output, UTXO	Website	An explanation on how UTXO’s operate vs other methods.
How the NSA identified Satoshi Nakamoto	Website	An article written by Alexander Muse on Medium that explains how the NSA identified the creator of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.
How a Bitcoin Transaction Works	Website	This article explains what a bitcoin transaction is, its purpose and outcome. The explanation in this article is suitable for both novice and intermediate bitcoin users.
How does the Blockchain Work? (Part 1)	Website	An article written by Collin Thompson on Medium that gives a simple and easy explanation on how blockchain works.
How Does the Blockchain Work?	Website	An article written by Michele D'Aliessi on Medium that explains blockchain technology in simple words.
A Gentle Introduction to Blockchain Technology	Website	This article is a gentle introduction to blockchain technology and assumes minimal technical knowledge. It attempts to describe “what it is” rather than “why should I care”.
On Public and Private Blockchains	Website	A blog posted by Vitalik Buterin, the founder of Ethereum. He goes on to explain the differences between the different types of blockchains.
What is Cryptocurrency. Guide for Beginners	Website	An easy to understand guide on cryptocurrencies, including its history and future.
2017 Was Bitcoin's Year. 2018 Will Be Ethereum's	Website	The following article written by Jez San, CEO of FunFair Technologies, an Ethereum-powered casino platform, explains why Ethereum will continue to evolve throughout the year 2018.
What is Cryptocurrency: Everything You Need To Know	Website	This introduction explains the most important things about cryptocurrencies and where they are headed.
What is the Difference Between Public and Permissioned Blockchains?	Website	An article that introduces a description of the three technologies that make up blockchain technology: cryptographic keys, a distributed network and a network servicing protocol.
Blockchain	Website	Blockchain is the world's leading software platform for digital assets. Offering the largest production blockchain platform in the world and using new technology to build a radically better financial system. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Bitcoin Blockchain.
Bitcoin Block Explorer	Website	Block Explorer is an open source web tool that allows you to view information about blocks, addresses, and transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Bitcoin Blockchain.
Etherscan	Website	EtherScan is a Block Explorer, Search, API and Analytics Platform for Ethereum, a decentralized smart contracts platform. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Ethereum Blockchain.
Week 02 Ethereum Blockchain
Learning Objectives:

Discuss, at a high-level, the innovation of the Ethereum Blockchain, namely, the smart contract.
Illustrate Ethereum Blockchain protocol: structural elements and operational aspects.
Demonstrate the concept of gas, the fuel or payment model for code execution, and the incentive model of Ethereum Blockchain.
Resources
Title of resource	Resource type	Description
Smart Contracts: The Blockchain Technology That Will Replace Lawyers	Website	Article explains what smart contracts are and how they allow for the disposal of intermediaries which will saves time and conflict for governments and corporations.
Introduction to Smart Contracts	Website	Introduction to the basics of smart contracts and solidity.
What is Ethereum?	Website	Introduction to Ethereum, Ethereum Virtual Machine, and how they work.
Smart Contracts: A White Paper	White paper	Offers an overview of smart contracts, their types depending on the transaction involved, and blockchain technology providers.
Account Management	Website	Documentation on account management from Ethereum Homestead, an ongoing collaborative effort of volunteers from the Ethereum Community.
Native: Account management	Website	Introduces account management and how it can provide Ethereum integration for your native applications.
How Ethereum Works	Website	This article dives deeper into how the platform functions under the hood.
What Is Meant By The Term “Gas”?	Website	Answers on Ethereum stack exchange that explains gas and where it comes from?
Vitalik Buterin Doubles Down on Ethereum Incentive Strategy	Website	An article written by Amy Castor that goes into Vitalik’s incentive strategy for Ethereum during the Workshop on Trusted Smart Contracts.
Ether	Website	Official website of ethereum that lists the most important things to know about ethers.
Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake: Basic Mining Guide	Website	This article will explain the main differences between Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake and will provide a definition of mining.
Etherscan	Website	EtherScan is a Block Explorer, Search, API and Analytics Platform for Ethereum, a decentralized smart contracts platform. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Ethereum Blockchain.
Week 03 Algorithms & Techniques
Learning Objectives:

Summarize the working of public key cryptography.
Explain simple hashing & Merkle tree hash.
Explore the application of hashing and cryptography in protecting the Blockchain.
Resources
Title of resource	Resource type	Description
What Is Public-Key Cryptography?	Website	A look at the encryption algorithm and its security benefits
Asymmetric Cryptography (Public-Key Cryptography)	Website	Article explains what Asymmetric cryptography is and how it works
Public Key Cryptography - Computerphile	Video (Run time- 6:19)	Youtube video that explains how public key cryptography works.
What Is Hashing? Under The Hood of Blockchain	Website	An article that not only explains the basics of hashing but introduces a more specific type of hashing and how it affects the mining process.
SHA: Secure Hashing Algorithm - Computerphile	Video (Run time- 10:20)	Dr. Mike Pound explains how files are used to generate seemingly random hash strings.
Hash Functions	Website	Explanations and examples of simple hash functions and the hashing sequences of characters.
Blockchain demo	website	This website contains a hashing tool.
How Safe Are Blockchains? It Depends.	Website	Article explains the inherent security risks in blockchain technology, by going into the differences between public and private blockchains.
Blockchains: Embedding Integrity	Website	Article explains why big corporations and financial institutions are spending lots of time and money looking into Blockchain.
Securing the Blockchain	Website	Article talks about the high profile blockchain incidents that have occurred and how organizations should move forward.
Is It Chain of Headers Rather Than a Chain of Blocks?	Website	Bitcoin Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for Bitcoin cryptocurrency enthusiasts. Users comment on whether its chain of headers or chain of blocks.
What is a Block Header in Bitcoin?	Website	Article explains how to calculate and identify a block header.
1. Blockchain	Website	Blockchain is the world's leading software platform for digital assets. Offering the largest production blockchain platform in the world and using new technology to build a radically better financial system. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Bitcoin Blockchain.
2. Bitcoin Block Explorer	Website	Block Explorer is an open source web tool that allows you to view information about blocks, addresses, and transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Bitcoin Blockchain.
3. Bitcoin Wiki	Website	A public resource wiki page for the community of Bitcoin users, developers, and businesses as well as anyone interested in Bitcoin. Here you can find the Block hashing algorithm in detail.
4. Bitcoin Block Hash Calculation	Website	Tool to calculate the hash of a bitcoin block.
5. Encryption Tool	Website	Tool to understand the Public-Private key encryption and decryption algorithm with an example.
Week 04 Trust Essentials
Learning Objectives:

Define elements of trust in a Blockchain: security, validation, verification, and consensus.
Discuss Consensus protocol: an algorithmic approach to add a new block and to secure the chain.
Explain trust in the robustness of the main chain.
Illustrate trust in managing exceptional situations: soft fork and hard fork.
Demonstrate you are able to follow the steps to transact on a blockchain.
Resources
Title of resource	Resource type	Description
Blockchain Based Trust & Authentication For Decentralized Sensor Networks	Website	The article contained on this website summarizes and explores decentralized authentication and node trust informations.
How the Blockchain will Radically Transform the Economy	Video - TEDtalk (Run time- 14:58)	Description: In this valuable TEDtalk of the complex (and confusing) technology, Bettina Warburg describes how the blockchain will eliminate the need for centralized institutions like banks or governments to facilitate trade, evolving age-old models of commerce and finance into something far more interesting: a distributed, transparent, autonomous system for exchanging value.
A (Short) Guide to Blockchain Consensus Protocols	Website	The article on this website summarizes the different types of proof.
Review of blockchain consensus mechanisms	Website	The article on this website summarizes the different types of proof.
Blockchain Expert Explains One Concept in 5 Levels of Difficulty	Video (Run time 17:49)	This video provides a great explanation of blockchain at varying levels of comprehension. Blockchain, the key technology behind Bitcoin, is a new network that helps decentralize trade, and allows for more peer-to-peer transactions. WIRED challenged political scientist and blockchain researcher Bettina Warburg to explain blockchain technology to 5 different people; a child, a teen, a college student, a grad student, and an expert.
How The Blockchain Is Redefining Trust	Website	This helpful article highlights how the blockchain can remove intermediaries from numerous transactions between people, corporations, and a host of other financial interactions.
Have Blockchain Forks Shown Hayek to be Right or Wrong?	Website	This valuable article explores the concept of free market money as proposed by Friedrich Hayek in the 1970’s and its relationship to Blockchain and Bitcoin.
Split on Forks? Blockchain Leaders Learn Tough Lessons from Bitcoin Scaling	Website	This website focuses on how developers need to find ways to conduct upgrades to bitcoin in a smoother manner.
Bitcoin, Blockchain Forks & Lightning	Video (Run time- 8:40)	In this helpful video, an employee of UCL Security Group summarizes theories to scale bitcoin.
